# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

The following criteria from my [1.5 Success Criteria](../analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) relate to the function and robustness of my game.

| Criterion | Description                                                                                            |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 34        | The game should be stable and not buggy. It should perform normally even under unexpected user inputs. |
| 35        | The program should run smoothly without freezing or stuttering.                                        |
| 36        | The game should run at a minimum of 30 frames per second.                                              |

### Criterion 34

> The game should be stable and not buggy. It should perform normally even under unexpected user inputs.

I tried everything I could to try to break or crash my game. This involved unexpected or borderline inputs, like trying to start the game without creating a character or trying to buy the same weapon more than once by spam-clicking in a short duration. My game remained stable and had no issues so this criterion was passed.

### Criterion 35

> The program should run smoothly without freezing or stuttering.

Having played the game for an extended period, I think it is safe to conclude that the program runs smoothly because no freezing or crashing occurred throughout my testing. Therefore I consider this criterion to be passed.

### Criterion 36

> The game should run at a minimum of 30 frames per second.

Kaboom has an inbuilt debug tool which can be activated by pressing f1 while in the game. Each object's hitboxes and the game's current fps are shown however when the debug mode is activated, the framerate of the game drops quite noticeably. I estimate that the actual framerate of the game running normally is around 10-15 fps higher than the fps when the debug log is activated.

## Testing Evidence

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/4CyBChmoMN0" %}
The game can be played for extended periods of time without encountering any bugs, freezing, or other issues.
{% endembed %}

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/Id2rvTUr71U" %}
The debug screen displays -20 fps when all the hitboxes are activated. When the game is running I estimate it is \~35 fps.
{% endembed %}
