# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

### Controls

<table><thead><tr><th width="115">Criterion</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>When was it achieved</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>The player can move the character using the WASD keys. </td><td>This movement system is simple and easy to use.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1.md">Cycle 1</a></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>The player can 'dash' using the right mouse button, which increases movement speed for a few seconds.</td><td>This provides a way for players to attempt to quickly get out of a tricky situation and allows for more interesting movements.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1.md">Cycle 1</a></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>The weapon aims in the direction of the mouse cursor and clicking will attack in that direction.</td><td>This allows the player to aim, and the weapon should attack in the direction that the player is aiming.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-1.md">Cycle 2</a></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>When near a chest or purchasable item, pressing E will carry out the action.</td><td>E is near the movement keys which makes it easier to interact with objects while moving.</td><td>Not developed</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>The number keys can be used to switch the active weapon (if the player has picked up enough wepaons).</td><td>Being able to use multiple weapons makes the game feel more diverse and exciting.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-10.md">Cycle 10</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Criterion 1 - Achieved

WASD movement was one of the first features to be implemented in my game; I added it in Cycle 1. When adding different characters in Cycle 11, I adjusted my code so that the movement speed was set to a different value for each character. Other than this, the WASD movement has remained largely unchanged during the entire duration of my project development. The player can use the W, A, S, and D keys to move the player in the corresponding direction (up, left, down, right).

#### Criterion 2 - Achieved

Dashing is another feature which has been in the game since the first cycle. The player can use the right mouse button to momentarily increase the player's movement speed and there is a short cooldown before they can do this again. In Cycle 11, I changed dashing so that the statistics are different for each playable character and in Cycle 15 I added a dash cooldown bar so it is clear for players when they can dash again, which helps make the dash ability more user-friendly.

#### Criterion 3 - Achieved

In Cycle 2 I added a basic weapon which fired a bullet towards the cursor when the mouse was clicked. I later added more weapons which had unique statistics in cycles 10 and 13. Weapons vary with different reload times, bullet damage, bullet speed, accuracy and unlock cost. Some weapons are also automatic (you can hold down the mouse to repeatedly fire), which is a feature I added in Cycle 16. Despite these additions, I've always tried to keep shooting simple because it is one of the game's core components so should remain as easy as possible.

#### Criterion 4 - Not developed

Initially, I planned to use the E key to interact with chests and purchasable items. However, I ultimately decided not to include chests in my game and to implement the shop differently than previously planned due to time constraints. Instead of pedestals of purchasable items in the shop, the shop has a menu where you can press different keys to unlock new weapons. See Criterion 12 for why I decided not to include chests in my game. Due to these features not being implemented, there was no need for interacting with the E key.

#### Criterion 5 - Achieved

In Cycle 10, I added multiple weapons which could be switched between using the number keys, replacing the old gun from Cycle 2. When each number key is pressed, the code checks that you own a weapon in that slot before trying to switch to it. This prevents any errors trying to switch to something which isn't there. When I added more weapons in Cycle 13, it was as simple as adding some more number keys to accommodate every weapon.

### Map

<table><thead><tr><th width="113">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>When was it achieved</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>6</td><td>There are 3 floors which the player has to fight.</td><td>Each floor acts as a seperate level. Having 3 levels allows me to increases the difficulty as you progress, without the game feeling too long.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-6.md">Cycle 7</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>A floor is made up of a series of connected rooms.</td><td>Each room poses a seperate challenge in a level. Combat in these rooms will pose as the main source of gameplay.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md">Cycle 3</a></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Each floor is generated when the previous one is defeated.</td><td>By only generating a new floor when its needed, this reduces the computational power required.</td><td>Not developed</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>Floors are generated differently each time from a selection of premade rooms.</td><td>This ensures that the game doesn't feel repetitive from playing through the same floor layout over and over.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-6.md">Cycle 7</a></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Only one room is shown on the screen at a time. When the player touches a door the next room is shown.</td><td>Showing all the map at once would make it difficult to see what was going on. Also all the enemies present at once could be an issue computationally.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md">Cycle 3</a> &#x26; <a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-12.md">Cycle 12</a></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>The first room on floors 2 and 3 is a peaceful shop room where players can spend their currency to buy items.</td><td>This allows players to prepare for the floor ahead during a moment of relative calm after having beaten the previous floor.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-13.md">Cycle 13</a></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>There is one chest room in a floor which awards the player with a weapon and some coins when they open it.</td><td>This provides the player with opportunities to unlock new and exciting weapons, even if they don't have enough coins to buy one in the shop.</td><td>Not developed</td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>Traps and destructable boxes will be scattered throughout the rooms.</td><td>They will provide some extra hazards for players to content with and make rooms more interesting.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md">Cycle 3</a>, <a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-12.md">Cycle 12</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Criterion 6 - Achieved

I initially set up a basic level system in Cycle 3 which moved to the next level in a fixed array after the previous one was completed. In Cycle 7 I improved the room generation to create 3 floors of 1 shop level, 5 randomly selecting combat levels, and 1 boss level, before repeating. However, the combat levels in each floor were still the same random sample, so in Cycle 12 I modified it so that the levels got harder with the floors. Now the level difficulty scales well and there is a good sense of progression for the player because as they get better over time they are able to make it further into the game.

#### Criterion 7 - Achieved

Due to how the levels are stored, one room moves into the next linearly. Ever since Cycle 3, the next room could be incremented with the R key. This test feature was needed to change the level until I added the door in Cycle 12. When the player touches the door, the game will go to the next room if the player has defeated all the enemies in the current room.

#### Criterion 8 - Not developed (not needed)

I vastly overestimated the computational power of generating the sequence of levels, as it is as simple as adding multiple objects to an array. The computation needed to do this is almost unnoticeable so it made more sense to create the levels for all three floors at once and do it right at the start.

#### Criterion 9 - Achieved

In Cycle 7, I made the level sequence randomly selected instead of being in a fixed order. In Cycle 12, I improved this to pull 5 random levels from 3 arrays corresponding to the 3 different floors. Now the floors are structured with a fixed level on either side of 5 randomly chosen levels for the floor.

#### Criterion 10 - Achieved

Only one room is displayed at a time so that the player can easily see everything that is going on. If multiple rooms were displayed once, everything would have to be smaller to fit. In Cycle 12, I added the door, which starts the next level when the player touches it. All the enemies have to be dead for the door to activate, otherwise, you could just run through the whole game without fighting anything, which wouldn't be very fun and isn't in the spirit of the game.

#### Criterion 11 - Achieved

I added the shop feature in Cycle 13. Players can touch the shopkeeper to see the list of items and then press the corresponding key to buy that item if they have enough coins. In Cycle 16 I fixed a few oversights with the shop feature which could cause some bugs. Initially, I had planned to implement the shop feature in a different way, with each purchasable item on a pedestal which you can walk up to and buy. This is something I didn't include due to time limitations but the current shop is still functional and serves its purpose well.

#### Criterion 12 - Not developed

During development, I decided not to implement chests in my game because I felt that it wouldn't actually improve gameplay and wasn't needed. Players already received enough coins from killing enemies to buy weapons from the shop so it would make the game too easy. Also, it would mean there would be an extra room per floor without any combat, which could have made the gameplay feel a bit slower and less intense.

#### Criterion 13 - Achieved

I added spikes and boxes as parts of the level tilemap in Cycle 3 but it wasn't until Cycle 5 that the spikes could actually damage the player and not until Cycle 12 when projectiles could destroy the boxes. Also in Cycle 12, I made some proper level layouts for the game for the game but at first, they included too many spikes and boxes so I later had to reduce their density during balancing. When there are too many spikes and boxes, the game becomes too difficult since it is too hard to move around without taking damage. This would feel unfair to players as there is nothing they can do about it, so I had to make sure there was the right amount of obstacles. Too few and the game is boring and too many and the game is frustrating.

### Enemies

<table><thead><tr><th width="114">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>14</td><td>Different enemies will appear on different floors, becoming increasingly more powerful as the player progresses.</td><td>This means the difficulty will increase the further the player gets, providing a necessary amount of challenge.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-12.md">Cycle 12</a></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>Enemies attack the player in predictable patterns by waiting a couple of seconds before attacking and moving.</td><td>This allows players to predict and learn enemy movement as they play, adding a layer of skill which comes with experience.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-8.md">Cycle 8b</a></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>There is a boss at the end of each floor which has lots of health. Boss attacks deal more damage than enemies and are hard to avoid.</td><td>Bosses will provide a challenge which players need to beat at the end of a floor. This will reward the player with a great sense of achievement having beaten a level.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-14.md">Cycle 14</a></td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>Boss enemies have a chance to spawn its minions after shooting.</td><td>This will make bosses more challenging and exciting.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-14.md">Cycle 14</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Criterion 14 - Achieved&#x20;

In Cycle 12, I changed level generation so that the random levels for each floor are chosen from 3 different lists, one for each floor. This meant that I could create different levels for each floor where the enemy spawns are different - harder enemies are spawned on higher floors. This adds a sense of challenge to the game and provides a source of progression which keeps it engaging.

#### Criterion 15 - Achieved

I added proper enemies in Cycle 8b. They move for a set duration before pausing to shoot a bullet and moving again and repeating. This allows players to predict the enemies to a certain degree, which is a source of their natural progression in the game. This is because players will become more skilled at the game and learn how to get further each time they play which will feel rewarding. Also, I properly balanced the game in Cycle 19, which is where I adjusted the statistics for each enemy to differentiate them and make each enemy feel unique. For example, some enemies will move faster than others or do more damage. All enemies, however, follow the same pattern.

#### Criterion 16 - Achieved

Boss fights were added in Cycle 14, and the health bar for the boss was added in Cycle 16. There is a boss fight at the end of each floor and the boss strength increases on each floor. Stronger bosses have more health and stronger attacks (both higher damage and different attack patterns). The first boss shoots normally, the second boss shoots in fast bursts of 5 projectiles and the third boss shoots in a shotgun-like spread. After firing, bosses have a chance to spawn additional enemies into the level to act as their minions, the strength of which depends on the difficulty of the boss. Bosses pose a final challenge in each floor before players can spend their coins in the shop and get stronger gear or recover health.

#### Criterion 17 - Achieved

After firing, bosses have a percentage chance to spawn additional enemies into the level to act as their minions, the strength of which depends on the difficulty of the boss. The chance of spawning minions actually descreases as the bosses get harder so players aren't overwhelmed by a horde of strong enemies. This functionality was added with boss fights in Cycle 14.

### Mechanics

<table><thead><tr><th width="114">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>When was it achieved</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>18</td><td>A collision system which prevents players or enemies from walking through barriers.</td><td>A collision system is important to ensure that players don't leave the bounds of the map or break logic by phasing through obstacles.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md">Cycle 3</a></td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>Bullet collision detects when a bullet has hit an entity and applies the damage to its health. Then the bullet disappears.</td><td>Bullets from different weapons will deal different amounts of damage to enemies and bulllets should disappear on impact.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-9.md">Cycle 9</a></td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>If the health of an enemy reaches 0 then it disappears.</td><td>This ensures dead enemies do not fill the screen and make it hard to see what's going on.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-8.md">Cycle 8b</a></td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>Coins are dropped from enemies and chests.</td><td>Players will have a reliable source of currency with they can use at a shop.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-9.md">Cycle 9</a></td></tr><tr><td>22</td><td>Permanent power ups increase the player's stats until the end of the run. +1 attack, +1 speed, -0.1 reload etc</td><td>Powerups will help players if they are struggling with enemies and also provide a sense of progression through a run.</td><td>Not developed</td></tr><tr><td>23</td><td>Temporary power ups will boost the player but only for a short duration (eg 30-60 seconds).</td><td>Temporary boosts will help players for a short period and give them a taste of the permanent powerups.</td><td>Not developed</td></tr><tr><td>24</td><td>Touching an active trap deals damage to the player.</td><td>Traps will be an extra challange the player has to contend with.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-4.md">Cycle 5</a></td></tr><tr><td>25</td><td>Consuming health items will restore hp.</td><td>Allowing players to restore health points means that they won't feel too fustrated taking damage so will enjoy the game more.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-13.md">Cycle 13</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Criterion 18 - Achieved

When I built the level tile map in Cycle 3, I used the 'solid' property on the walls in my code which means other solid objects can't pass through. The player is also solid which means the player is not able to walk through any of the walls. When I added enemies and bosses in Cycle 8b and Cycle 14 respectively, I did the same thing.

#### Criterion 19 - Achieved

Whenever a player bullet collides with an enemy, the bullet is destroyed and the updateHealth function is called inside the enemy class which applies the bullet's damage and then calls another function which checks if the health is equal to or below 0. Collision detection uses the onCollide function within Kaboom. I added enemy damage as part of Cycle 8b when I implemented a working enemy system into the game.

#### Criterion 20 - Achieved

The destroy function inside the enemy class is called whenever the enemy takes damage. The destroy function checks the health of the enemy and if it is below or equal to 0 then the enemy is destroyed. This was added in Cycle 8b as part of how enemies behave.

#### Criterion 21 - Achieved

I added coins in Cycle 9 along with a coin counter which displays how many coins the player has. Whenever an enemy is killed, the coin counter is incremented by 1. Originally I planned for enemies to drop coins on the floor which players would have to pick up by walking over them but during development, I realised that that was unnecessarily complicated and could be annoying when you want to move on to the next room. When I added bosses in Cycle 14, they awarded one coin when defeated (like normal enemies). However, since they provide a harder challenge, in Cycle 17 I increased the reward for defeating a boss from 1 to 5 coins.

#### Criterion 22 - Not developed

I haven't included powerups in my game due to time constraints. I would have liked to include this feature but I decided to spend my time on more important features instead. Initially, I planned to sell permanent and temporary powerups in the shop and also have them as chest rewards, however after development, the way I would implement powerups has changed. I think powerups would fit better into my game if there was a rare chance for a powerup to spawn when a box is destroyed and if they were temporary only. This would make boxes feel more useful and give them additional functionality. I will further discuss the potential for powerups in [Maintenance and Future Development](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md).

#### Criterion 23 - Not developed

I did not develop powerups - see the above criterion.

#### Criterion 24 - Achieved

In Cycle 5 I added the player health bar and damage system. However, enemies had not been added yet so the only source of damage was touching spikes. It was quite useful that enemies hadn't been added yet because it allowed me to develop the player health system without worrying if the enemies were working. Damage from spikes has remained largely unchanged since Cycle 5, the only change was when in Cycle 17 when I added the effect on the screen when the player takes damage.

#### Criterion 25 - Achieved

Health replenishment was part of the shop I added in Cycle 13. If the player has enough coins they can press the l to restore some health. Healing adds an interesting dynamic to my game because when the player comes to the shop they have to decide if they want to prioritise restoring hp or want to buy new weapons.

### UI

<table><thead><tr><th width="116">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>26</td><td>Main menu which allows the player to start a round by choosing their character.</td><td>A main menu welomes the player to the game and will allow them to pick their character of choice. This allows greater customisation.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-11.md">Cycle 11</a></td></tr><tr><td>27</td><td>Pause menu which allows players to pause gameplay.</td><td>This allows the player to pick up where they left off if they have to go for a moment.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-17.md">Cycle 17</a></td></tr><tr><td>28</td><td>A health bar in the corner of the player's screen displays how much health they have left before they die.</td><td>Players will be aware of how much health they have and if they are close to death.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-4.md">Cycle 5</a></td></tr><tr><td>29</td><td>The buffs from active powerups are displayed on the side of the screen.</td><td>Players will know which buffs are active at any given time.</td><td>Not developed</td></tr><tr><td>30</td><td>The player can choose which weapon slot each weapon is in in the inventory menu.</td><td>This allows for greater customisation and hence enjoyment.</td><td>Not developed</td></tr><tr><td>31</td><td>The number of coins and shields the player currently has is counted on the screen.</td><td>Players will be aware of how many coins and shields they have so they can decide when to use them.</td><td>Partially developed in <a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-9.md">Cycle 9</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Criterion 26 - Achieved

I added the initial main menu and character selection in Cycle 11 but it was pretty basic and needed changes so I improved it in Cycle 15. In Cycle 18, I redesigned the menu buttons and polished off the menu and character selection to ensure a pleasant user experience. The main menu and character selection is a really important part of my game because the player has to interface with it at the start of every game and it is also what the player sees when playing my game for the first time. Therefore, I aimed to make it as efficient and easy to use as possible.

#### Criterion 27 - Achieved

I added the pause menu in Cycle 17, which allows players to pause and unpause the game using the escape key. It adds a white overlay to the screen and some text describing how to unpause. In Cycle 18, I made the game music become quieter when the pause menu is active. This is an example of audio feedback to the user which should make the game feel nicer to play.

#### Criterion 28 - Achieved

The player's health bar has remained largely unchanged since its implementation in Cycle 5. The health bar is scaled to the player's current health so whenever the player takes damage or heals the health bar is updated too. When I added more characters in Cycle 11, I changed the health bar so that the starting width would correspond to the health of the chosen character. This allows players to compare the health of each character and visualise their differences.

#### Criterion 29 - Not developed

I haven't implemented a powerup display as I did not include a powerup system in my game for timing reasons. See the description for Criterion 22 for further explanation.

#### Criterion 30 - Not developed

During development, I decided not to add this feature because I felt that it was unnecessarily complicated. The existing inventory system in my game is easy to understand and there isn't really a need for players to change which key corresponds to which weapon because, in a typical game, you'll only unlock 2 to 3 weapons. Therefore it will always be easy to switch weapons as the 1, 2 and 3 keys are near to where your left hand will be for movement anyway.

#### Criterion 31 - Partially Developed

The coin counter display was added along with the coin system in Cycle 9. It reflects the number of coins the player currently has and it increases whenever an enemy is killed. I haven't implemented a shield counter as I have not included shields within my game. During development, I realised that having a shield feature would be too strong as being immune to damage for a short duration would make boss fights very easy. Instead, I was going to include the idea as a damage reduction powerup which reduces incoming damage by 50% but still means the player has to fight properly. However, as previously discussed I was unable to include powerups in my game due to time constraints.

### Non-functional

<table><thead><tr><th width="114">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>When was it achieved</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>32</td><td>The game should provide a challenge without being unfair.</td><td>This will give players a great sense of achievement when they complete the game without being fustrating.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-19.md">Cycle 19</a></td></tr><tr><td>33</td><td>The game should meet the PEGI 12 guidelines.</td><td>This PEGI rating will make the game appeal to teens and adults alike.</td><td>Throughout</td></tr><tr><td>34</td><td>The game should be stable and not buggy. It should perform normally even under unexpected user inputs.</td><td>Bugs are fustrating for players and my game needs to take into account all the possible actions or inputs a player could make.</td><td><a href="../design-and-development/cycle-1-16.md">Cycle 16</a></td></tr><tr><td>35</td><td>The program should run smoothly without freezing or stuttering.</td><td>This would interrupt the player's experience and make the game less enjoyable.</td><td>Throughout</td></tr><tr><td>36</td><td>The game should run at a minimum of 30 frames per second.</td><td>This ensures the gameplay feels smooth and is enjoyable for the player.</td><td>Throughout</td></tr></tbody></table>

#### Criterion 32 - Achieved

While developing my game, I was not concerned about properly balancing the game and instead focussed on developing features. Therefore as part of Cycle 19, I did my best to balance the characters, weapons, enemies and bosses as much as possible. I did this by repeatedly playing my game and seeing what was too strong and what was too weak before tweaking it.

#### Criterion 33 - Achieved

The guidelines for a PEGI-12 rating are "_Video games that show violence of a slightly more graphic nature towards fantasy characters or non-realistic violence towards human-like characters would fall in this age category. Sexual innuendo or sexual posturing can be present, while any bad language in this category must be mild."_ ([PEGI, 2023](../5-references/reference-list.md#2.1-design-frame)) My game meets these requirements as it only contains mild fantasy violence and has no sexual content or bad language.

#### Criterion 34 - Achieved

During development, I picked up on some issues for edge-case inputs or unexpected behaviour which I then resolved in Cycle 16. The final game state is practically bug-free.

#### Criterion 35 - Achieved

My game never had any issues with freezing or stuttering and has run smoothly throughout.

#### Criterion 36 - Achieved

As shown in [Testing for Function and Robustness](../testing/3.1-robustness.md), my game runs at a minimum of 30 frames per second and poor framerate has not been an issue for me.
