# 1.5 Success Criteria

The success criteria are the essential benchmarks that provide measurable goals that define the desired outcome of my project. By outlining these criteria, I can track my progress, stay focused, and ensure I'm working on project objectives. This is explored further in the Systems Diagram of my [Design Frame](../design-and-development/systems-diagram.md).

### Controls

<table><thead><tr><th width="115">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>The player can move the character using the WASD keys. </td><td>This movement system is simple and easy to use.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>The player can 'dash' using the right mouse button, which increases movement speed for a few seconds.</td><td>This provides a way for players to attempt to quickly get out of a tricky situation and allows for more interesting movements.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>The weapon aims in the direction of the mouse cursor and clicking will attack in that direction.</td><td>This allows the player to aim, and the weapon should attack in the direction that the player is aiming.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#combat">Combat</a></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>When near a chest or purchasable item, pressing E will carry out the action.</td><td>E is near the movement keys which makes it easier to interact with objects while moving.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#interacting">Interacting</a></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>The number keys can be used to switch the active weapon (if the player has picked up enough weapons).</td><td>Being able to use multiple weapons makes the game feel more diverse and exciting.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#combat">Combat</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Map

<table><thead><tr><th width="113">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>6</td><td>There are 3 floors which the player has to fight.</td><td>Each floor acts as a seperate level. Having 3 levels allows me to increases the difficulty as you progress, without the game feeling too long.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#floors">Floors</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td> A floor is made up of a series of connected rooms.</td><td>Each room poses a seperate challenge in a level. Combat in these rooms will pose as the main source of gameplay.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#generation-and-structure">Generation &#x26; Structure</a></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Each floor is generated when the previous one is defeated.</td><td>By only generating a new floor when its needed, this reduces the computational power required.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#floors">Floors</a></td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>Floors are generated differently each time from a selection of premade rooms.</td><td>This ensures that the game doesn't feel repetitive from playing through the same floor layout over and over.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#generation-and-structure">Generation &#x26; Structure</a></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Only one room is shown on the screen at a time. When the player touches a door the next room is shown.</td><td>Showing all the map at once would make it difficult to see what was going on. Also all the enemies present at once could be an issue computationally.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#generation-and-structure">Generation &#x26; Structure</a></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>The first room on floors 2 and 3 is a peaceful shop room where players can spend their currency to buy weapons or powerups.</td><td>This allows players to prepare for the floor ahead during a moment of relative calm after having beaten the previous floor.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#vendor-rooms">Vendor Rooms</a></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>There is one chest room in a floor which awards the player with a weapon and some coins when they open it.</td><td>This provides the player with opportunities to unlock new and exciting weapons, even if they don't have enough coins to buy one in the shop.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#chest-rooms">Chest Rooms</a></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>Traps and destructable boxes will be scattered throughout the rooms.</td><td>They will provide some extra hazards for players to content with and make rooms more interesting.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#traps">Traps</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Enemies

<table><thead><tr><th width="114">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>14</td><td>Different enemies will appear on different floors, becoming increasingly more powerful as the player progresses.</td><td>This means the difficulty will increase the further the player gets, providing a necessary amount of challenge.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#enemy-list">Enemy List</a></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>Enemies attack the player in predictable patterns by waiting a couple of seconds before attacking and moving.</td><td>This allows players to predict and learn enemy movement as they play, adding a layer of skill which comes with experience.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#enemies">Enemies</a></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>There is a boss at the end of each floor which has lots of health. Boss attacks deal more damage than enemies and are hard to avoid.</td><td>Bosses will provide a challenge which players need to beat at the end of a floor. This will reward the player with a great sense of achievement having beaten a level.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#bosses">Bosses</a></td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>Boss enemies have a chance to spawn its minions after shooting.</td><td>This will make bosses more challenging and exciting.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#bosses">Bosses</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Mechanics

<table><thead><tr><th width="114">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>18</td><td>A collision system which prevents players or enemies from walking through barriers.</td><td>A collision system is important to ensure that players don't leave the bounds of the map or break logic by phasing through obstacles.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#generation-and-structure">Generation &#x26; Structure</a></td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>Bullet collision detects when a bullet has hit an entity and applies the damage to its health. Then the bullet disappears.</td><td>Bullets from different weapons will deal different amounts of damage to enemies and bulllets should disappear on impact.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#enemies">Enemies</a></td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>If the health of an entity reaches 0 then it disappears.</td><td>This ensures dead enemies do not fill the screen and make it hard to see what's going on.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#health">Health</a></td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>Coins are dropped from enemies and chests.</td><td>Players will have a reliable source of currency with they can use at a shop.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#vendor-rooms">Vendor Rooms</a></td></tr><tr><td>22</td><td>Permanent power ups increase the player's stats until the end of the run. +1 attack, +1 speed, -0.1 reload etc</td><td>Powerups will help players if they are struggling with enemies and also provide a sense of progression through a run.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#powerups">Powerups</a></td></tr><tr><td>23</td><td>Temporary power ups will boost the player but only for a short duration (eg 30-60 seconds).</td><td>Temporary boosts will help players for a short period and give them a taste of the permanent powerups.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#powerups">Powerups</a></td></tr><tr><td>24</td><td>Touching an active trap deals damage to the player.</td><td>Traps will be an extra challange the player has to contend with.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#traps">Traps</a></td></tr><tr><td>25</td><td>Consuming health items will restore hp.</td><td>Allowing players to restore health points means that they won't feel too fustrated taking damage so will enjoy the game more.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#health">Health</a></td></tr><tr><td>26</td><td>Melee weapons deal damage in an area in front of the player in an arc swing shape.</td><td>This means melee weapons still have a 'range' because the player will not need to be right next to an enemy to damage it. This should make melee weapons better to use.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#melee">Melee weapons</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### UI

<table><thead><tr><th width="116">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>27</td><td>Main menu which allows the player to start a round by choosing their character.</td><td>A main menu welomes the player to the game and will allow them to pick their character of choice. This allows greater customisation.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menus">Menus</a></td></tr><tr><td>28</td><td>Pause menu which allows players to pause gameplay.</td><td>This allows the player to pick up where they left off if they have to go for a moment.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menus">Menus</a></td></tr><tr><td>29</td><td>A health bar in the corner of the player's screen displays how much health they have left before they die.</td><td>Players will be aware of how much health they have and if they are close to death.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#health">Health</a></td></tr><tr><td>30</td><td>The buffs from active powerups are displayed on the side of the screen.</td><td>Players will know which buffs are active at any given time.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#powerups">Powerups</a></td></tr><tr><td>31</td><td>The player can choose which weapon slot each weapon is in in the inventory menu.</td><td>This allows for greater customisation and hence enjoyment.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#other-controls">Other Controls</a></td></tr><tr><td>32</td><td>The number of coins and shields the player currently has is counted on the screen.</td><td>Players will be aware of how many coins and shields they have so they can decide when to use them.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#coins">Coins</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Non-functional

These are features that are not descriptions of functionality. They are more like suitability, such as age rating appropriateness, performance/response times, etc.

<table><thead><tr><th width="114">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th>Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>33</td><td>The game should provide a challenge without being unfair.</td><td>This will give players a great sense of achievement when they complete the game without being fustrating.</td><td><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md#what-is-the-motivation-to-play-video-games">What is the motivation to play video games?</a></td></tr><tr><td>34</td><td>The game should meet the PEGI 12 guidelines.</td><td>This PEGI rating will make the game appeal to teens and adults alike.</td><td><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md#pegi-ratings">PEGI Ratings</a></td></tr><tr><td>35</td><td>The game should be stable and not buggy. It should perform normally even under unexpected user inputs.</td><td>Bugs are fustrating for players and my game needs to take into account all the possible actions or inputs a player could make.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#note-on-game-performance">Note on Game Performance</a></td></tr><tr><td>36</td><td>The program should run smoothly without freezing or stuttering.</td><td>This would interrupt the player's experience and make the game less enjoyable.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#note-on-game-performance">Note on Game Performance</a></td></tr><tr><td>37</td><td>The game should run at a minimum of 30 frames per second.</td><td>This ensures the gameplay feels smooth and is enjoyable for the player.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#note-on-game-performance">Note on Game Performance</a></td></tr></tbody></table>
